XmlStore
========

This is a simple, "pure python" (apart from requiring lxml) store for XML
objects.  The objects must have an "id" attribute which is globally unique,
and is used to identify the objects.

Objects are written to disk slightly lazily - a flush() may be called at any
time to ensure all objects are written.  All modifications are written to new
files, which are then used to atomically replace the old files (with a rename()
system call) when possible.  (Note that on windows, os.rename is not atomic and
cannot be used to replace an existing file, so multiple system calls are used
there to move the old file to a backup).

Example usage
-------------

Adding a record, and then getting it back out again::

    import xmlstore
    from lxml import etree

    store = xmlstore.XmlStore('path')
    store.set(u'<record id="1">Record data</record>')
    print etree.tounicode(store.get(u'1'))

See the documentation comments for xmlstore.XmlStore for more details.

Why
---

There are several reasons to use this instead of a database.

 - Future-proofing.  Data is never stored in a binary format, so it should
   always be reasonably tractable for software engineers to retrieve the
   data - even in 50 years time when there is no running version of the
   software left, so all parsing tools need to be written from scratch.
   This is expected to be the main reason for using this software.
 - No installation of software other than python.
 - No need to run a server.
 - Reasonably fast, very simple to use.

Obviously, it doesn't provide most of the features of a database, or search
system; the only operations are get(), set(), remove(), and iteration
through all items.  The expectation is that this will usually be used in
concert with an external search system to provide fast lookups in the data.

Requirements
------------

 - Python (tested on 2.5 and 2.6)
 - Python lxml extension

License
-------

Copyright (c) 2010 Richard Boulton

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
